---
title: "Version 8.0.0"
---


# Updating from `7.4.0` to `8.0.0`

## New Data Save/Sync System

A new system for saving and syncing object fields has been added. See [this page](../../Development/Data-Sync-System/Migrating-From-LDLib-SyncData.md) for migration instructions.

## Machine Refactor Part 1: `MetaMachine` and `MetaMachineBlockEntity` merge

Many aspects of the machine classes have been refactored and changed in order to streamline the machine system and remove legacy and unnecessary abstraction.

- The `MetaMachineBlockEntity`(MMBE) class has been removed, and `MetaMachine`(MM) is now a BlockEntity.
- Most methods and properties of MMBE have been moved onto MM.
- The `IMachineBlockEntity` interface has been removed. Use `MetaMachineBlock` directly instead.
- Many methods common to all block entities have been moved to the `IGregtechBlockEntity` interface.
- Machine instance creation functions have signature `(BlockEntityCreationInfo) -> MetaMachine` instead of `(IMachineBlockEntity) -> MetaMachine` 

References to MMBE can generally be replaced with references to MM:
```java
/////// OLD
if (level.getBlockEntity(getPos()) instanceof MetaMachineBlockEntity mmbe) {
    MetaMachine machine = mmbe.getMetaMachine();
    ...
}

////// NEW
if (level.getBlockEntity(getPos()) instanceof MetaMachine machine) {
    ... 
} 
```

The `IMachineBlockEntity holder` argument in machine constructors has been replaced with `BlockEntityCreationInfo info`:
```java
////// OLD
public MetaMachine(IMachineBlockEntity holder);
////// NEW
public MetaMachine(BlockEntityCreationInfo info);
```
A number of methods have been renamed across a number of different interfaces and classes to ensure consistency with default BlockEntity methods:

- `BlockPos getPipePos()` -> `BlockPos getBlockPos()`
- `Level getPipeLevel()` -> `Level getLevel()`
- `BlockPos getPos()` -> `BlockPos getBlockPos()`
- `BlockState getState()` -> `BlockState getBlockState()`
- `boolean isInvalid()` -> `boolean isRemoved()`
- `void markAsDirty()` -> `void markAsChanged()`

### Interfaces and behaviours merged into MetaMachine

Some interfaces have been removed with their methods now part of the MetaMachine class directly

- `IMachineLife` - Use `MetaMachine::onMachinePlaced` and `MetaMachine::onMachineDestroyed`.
- `IMachineModifyDrops` - Use `MetaMachine::modifyDrops`.
- `IInteractedMachine` - Use `MetaMachine::onUse` and `MetaMachine::onLeftClick`.

### Machine interaction refactor

Methods for processing machine interactions have changed, and all now take a single `ExtendedUseOnContext` argument. 
Machine interactions have been split into two methods: `MetaMachine::onUse` and `MetaMachine::onUseWithItem`.

## Machine Refactor Part 2: New Machine Trait System

A new system for attaching traits and custom behaviour to machines has been added, and many machine interfaces and traits now use this new system.

### Machine constructor and trait initialisation changes

The constructors for a large number of machines have changed in order to simply machine instance creation. Additionally, methods for trait creation have also been removed and now form part of the machine constructor.

#### **All Machines**
- Replace the first constructor argument `IMachineBlockEntity holder` with `BlockEntityCreationInfo info`
#### `TieredEnergyMachine`
- Removed `createEnergyContainer` method
- Constructor now has an optional `Supplier<NotifiableEnergyContainer>` argument
#### `WorkableTieredMachine`
- Removed `createRecipeLogic`, `createImportItemHandler`, `createExportItemHandler`, `createImportFluidHandler`, `createExportFluidHandler` methods
- Added a new constructor:
    - `BlockEntityCreationInfo info` 
    - `int tier`
    - `Supplier<RecipeLogic> recipeLogicSupplier` Recipe logic supplier, defaults to the standard `RecipeLogic` class.
    - `int importSlots` Item import slots, defaults to the amount of slots in the machine's default recipe type.
    - `int exportSlots` Same as above, but for item export slots.
    - `int fluidImportSlots` As above, but for fluid import slots.
    - `int fluidExportSlots` As above, but for fluid export slots.
    - `Int2IntFunction tankScalingFunction` Fluid tank capacity scaling function.
#### `WorkableMultiblockMachine`, `WorkableElectricMultiblockMachine` and `SteamWorkableMachine`
- Removed `createRecipeLogic` method
- Constructor now has an optional `Supplier<RecipeLogic>` argument, defaults to the standard `RecipeLogic` class

### New System Example

#### IMPORTANT MIGRATION NOTE:

Traits must be attached to a machine directly by calling `attachTrait(MachineTrait trait)` on the trait being attached. 
Previously, all machine traits were constructed with the machine as the first argument.
```java
/////// OLD
this.itemHandler = new NotifiableItemStackHandler(this, 0, IO.BOTH);

////// NEW
this.itemHandler = attachTrait(new NotifiableItemStackHandler(0, IO.BOTH))
```
When migrating, remove the `this` argument from the machine trait constructor and instead attach the trait.

Example of the new `AutoOutputTrait`

```java
public class CustomDrumMachine extends MetaMachine {

  protected final NotifiableFluidTank tank;
  public final AutoOutputTrait autoOutput;

  public DrumMachine(BlockEntityCreationInfo info, int capacity) {
    super(info);
    
    // Traits must be attached in the constructor.
    
    this.tank = attachTrait(new NotifiableFluidTank(1, capacity, IO.BOTH));
    
    // Registers an auto output trait that provides fluid output behaviour for the given fluid tank.
    this.autoOutput = attachTrait(AutoOutputTrait.ofFluids(tank));
    
    autoOutput.setFluidOutputDirection(Direction.DOWN);
    autoOutput.setFluidOutputDirectionValidator(d -> d == Direction.DOWN);
  }
  
  // Any code can query traits from a machine 
  public static void queryTraits(MetaMachine machine) {
      
      // Returns a trait with the given type, or null.
      AutoOutputTrait autoOutputTrait = machine.getTraitHolder().getTrait(AutoOutputTrait.TYPE);

      Optional<RecipeLogic> recipeLogicOptional = machine.getTraitHolder().getTrait(RecipeLogic.TYPE);
      
      // Gets all traits with the specified type.
      List<NotifiableItemStackHandler> allItemStackHandlers = machine.getTraitHolder().getTraits(NotifiableItemStackHandler.TYPE);
      
  }
}
```


### Removed interfaces

A large number of machine feature interfaces have been removed, and have had their functionality merged into the standard MetaMachine class, or now use the new machine trait system:

- `ITurbineMachine` Use the `LargeTurbineMachine` class directly.
- `IRotorHolderMachine` Use the `RotorHolderMachine` class directly.
- `IMultiController` Use the `MultiblockControllerMachine` class directly.
- `IMufflerMachine` Use the `MufflerMachine` class directly.
- `ICleanroomReceiver` & `ICleanroomProvider` - Use `CleanroomReceiverTrait` and `CleanroomProviderTrait`.
- `IAutoOutputBoth`, `IAutoOutputFluid`, `IAutoOutputItem` - Use `AutoOutputTrait`.
- `IExplosionMachine` - Use `EnvironmentalExplosionTrait`, `GTUtil::doExplosion`, and `GTUtil::setOnFire`
- `IEnvironmentalHazardCleaner` Use `EnvironmentalHazardCleanerTrait`
- `ILocalizedHazardEmitter` - Use `LocalizedHazardEmitterTrait`
- `IExhaustVentMachine` - Use `ExhaustVentMachineTrait`
- `IHPCAComponentHatch` - Use `HPCAComponentTrait`
- `IHPCAComputationProvider` - Use `HPCAComputationProviderTrait`
- `IHPCACoolantProvider` - Use `HPCACoolantProviderTrait`
- `IFluidRendererMulti` - Use `MultiblockFluidRendererTrait`


## Other Changes

- `BlastingRecipeBuilder`, `CampfireRecipeBuilder`, `SmeltingRecipeBuilder` and `SmokingRecipeBuilder` have been merged into `SimpleCookingRecipeBuilder`
    - Example usage: `SimpleCookingRecipeBuilder.campfireCooking("cooking_chicken").input(new ItemStack(Items.CHICKEN)).output(new ItemStacks(Items.COOKED_CHICKEN)).cookingTime(100).experience(100).save(provider);`
- `GTFluidImpl` has been merged into `GTFluid`, use `GTFluid.Flowing` and `GTFluid.Source` instead of `GTFluidImpl.Flowing` and `GTFluidImpl.Source`.
- Item behaviors have been moved to `common/item/behavior`, and some items have been moved from `api/item` to `common/item`.